certificate based authentication
password based authentication


OWASP RULE FOR PASSWORD states that password should not be less than 12 characters and last up to 128 characters and there should be no more composition rules 


                                  protecting passwrods 
                    1. accout lockout  2. reCAPTCHA  3. owasp recommend the argon2id password storage and protection
                    3. credential stuffing  (which is desibred as wehen an attack steals password from a particaular wenste and isue tjhem in other websoite)
                    4.MFA  5. Blocking attempts from a particular website, 


                     JSON WEB TOKEN
    HOW JWT WORKS IS THIS 

jwt token is written in base 64 , in jwt the client makes a request to the the server and in the reuest back a jwt tokem is offereed tp the client 
and the client sends it message. it is made up of a header , payload ans isgnatuire . the signraytire is kep by the server and anytime the client want to login , the signeraytir
is re-calculated and then the client is authenticaatied 

          

          session based authentication
in this type of authentication, a client send a request to a server 
and the server generatees a session and this session is used 
fotr estbalishing connection usually stored in the cookies 
and this ession is what will the user 

     token based authentication

this follows thr same parttertn the difference 
is that instread og a session generated a token is genrated 
and then signed with a private key 


difference between session based uathentication vs token based authentication 

1. looks up the session on every request to validate it 
while TBA decriptr the token and vlidates the signature 

JWT 

In jwt , the parts of the jwt are taken into base 64 
the signature is = header +payload 

the way jwt token works is that when a user sends in a payload
the headaer and the payload generates a hash function which is equivalnet to the signatue stored 
this signature is compared to the one stored in the server 



security practices for jwt 
1. have short or small token size (some servers have size limits)
2. Dont store sensitive data on the token 
3. have short expirartion and implement fresh tokens 
4.  set the issuer and audience properties in the token payload 


